# dssGradeParser

# About
This script is meant for the use of NITC students to compute information like CGPA, total credits, credits per semester, semester wise SGPA etc which is not directly available. It works by parsing the grade card generated by DSS. 

# Setup and Usage Instructions

### Step 1: Install the latest version of Python3

'''
sudo apt-get install python3
sudo apt-get upgrade python3
'''
For Ubuntu

'''
brew install python
brew upgrade python
'''
For Mac

### Step 2: Install PIP

PIP is needed to install the pdftotext package which is used in the script

### Step 3: Install pdftotext using PIP

[Follow the instructions given here](https://github.com/jalan/pdftotext)

### Step 4: Clone the repo

'''
git clone <clone url>
'''

### Step 5: Download your Grade Sheet from DSS

1. Go to dss.nitc.ac.in
2. Select Course Registration and log in
3. Go to Reports -> Enrolled Courses
4. Click 'Show My Results'
5. Save the pdf to the required directory

### Step 5: Run the script

'''
python3 dssGradeParser.py -p <path_to_grade_card_pdf>
'''

# What the script provides
1. SGPA for each semester
2. Credits earned in each semester
3. Number of OT Credits earned
4. Total number of credits earned
5. CGPA

# TO DO List

1. Add support for cases where all courses aren't cleared in first attempt
2. Add option to automatically download the file by entering DSS credentials
3. Extend to a web application where the user can upload the file and get the parsed grades

# Troubleshooting

If Stack Overflow doesn't solve your issues, you can mail me at balaji.jayasankar@gmail.com

# Disclaimer

I am in no way claiming that the grades calculated by this script are accurate/reliable. Parsing text from PDFs is a very hacky business, and there are a number of ways it could go wrong. The entire logic would fail if DSS decides to slightly alter the format of their PDFs. Also, for now the script only works as intended for cases where all subjects have been passed in the first attempt. So use this tool at your own risk. It is recommended that you verify your grades with more reliable sources before you use them somewhere important. 